gff3-filter(1) -- filter GFF3/GTF files
=======================================

## SYNOPSIS

`gff3-filter` FILTER_EXPR [-|GFF3_FILE] [-o OUTPUT_FILE] [OPTIONS]

`gtf-filter` FILTER_EXPR [-|GTF_FILE] [-o OUTPUT_FILE] [OPTIONS]

`gff3-filter` --help

`gff3-filter` --version

## DESCRIPTION

**gff3-filter** uses the filtering expression to select which records
will be written to the output. The filtering expression is specified
using a small DSL designed for this tool.

Supported output formats are GFF3, GTF, JSON and table output (using
the `--select` option).

## FILTER LANGUAGE

A basic example looks like:

    $ gff3-filter "field feature == CDS"  m_hapla.annotations.gff3

A slightly more complicated example would be:

    $ gff3-filter "(field feature == CDS) and (attr ID != \"\")" \
          m_hapla.annotations.gff3

Quite a few keywords and operators are available for creating custom
filtering expressions. The operator precedence is always from left to
right. Make sure to use brackets to get a different result. Space is
mandatory between all values and operators, except for brackets.

A list of available operators follows.

### field

  This operator takes one parameter to the right, a field name, and
  represents the field for the current record. Possible field names
  are: seqname, source, feature, start, end, score, strand and phase.

### attr

  This operator takes one parameter to the right, an attribute name.
  In case the attribute is not defined for the current record, it
  equals to an empty string.

### ==, !=

  Equality and non-equality operators can be used to compare strings,
  numbers, floats and boolean values.

### >, <<, >=, <=

  These operators can be used to compare integer and float values. In
  case there is a field or attr operator as an operand, the value of
  the field/attribute is first converted to a value good for
  comparison.

### and, or, not

  Boolean operators, with expected function.

### contains, starts_with

  Operators accept only string values.

### ()

Brackets, for setting custom operator precedence.

### +, -, *, /

Math operators for addition, subtracting, multiplication and division
of integer and floating point values.

## OPTIONS

General options:

 * `-o`, `--output OUT`:
   Output will be written to the file <out>, instead of stdout.

 * `--gtf-input`:
   Input data is in GTF format.

 * `--json`:
   Output in JSON format.

 * `--gtf-output`:
   Output in GTF format.

 * `--gff3-output`:
   Output in GFF3 format.

 * `-a`, `--at-most N`:
   Output at most N+1 lines, with the last line indicating if there
   should have been more lines.

 * `--select SEL_STRING`:
   Output only selected fields and/or attributes. If this options is
   present, default output format is tab-separated table. If `--json`
   option is present, output format will be JSON. See gff3-select(1)
   for more information about the SEL_STRING format.

 * `--keep-fasta`:
   Copy fasta data to output.

 * `--keep-comments`:
   Copy comment lines to output.

 * `--keep-pragmas`:
   Copy pragma lines to output.

 * `--version`:
   Output version information and exit.

 * `--help`:
   Print usage information and exit.

## EXAMPLES

To extract CDS records with the ID attribute defined:

    $ gff3-filter "(field feature == CDS) and (attr ID != \"\")" \
          m_hapla.annotations.gff3

## BUGS

See https://github.com/mamarjan/gff3-pltools/issues

## COPYRIGHT

`gff3-filter` is copyright (C) 2012 Marjan Povolni.

## SEE ALSO

gff3-select(1), gff3-ffetch(1)

